# Grin decision log

## Introduction
This document tracks decisions made by the Grin project and points to documentation/information where such decisions were made, for easy future reference. The log is in reverse chronological order.

## Decisions

ID | Date | Decision | Reference |
|---|:---|:---|:---|
79 | 20210302 | Ship Council ASIC to @hendi | [Meeting Note](notes/20210302-meeting-governance.md#decision-ship-council-asic-to-hendi)
78 | 20210216 | Approve @antiochp Q1 2021 funding request | [Meeting Note](notes/20210216-meeting-governance.md#decision-approve-antiochp-funding-request)
77 | 20210119 | Approve expensing GPU server for testnet mining costs | [Meeting Note](notes/20210119-meeting-governance.md#4-gpu-server-for-testnet-mining-costs)
76 | 20201215 | Approve @dtavarez Q1 2021 funding request | [Meeting Note](notes/20201222-meeting-development.md#decision-approve-dtavarez-funding-request)
75 | 20201215 | Approve @lehnberg Q1 2021 funding request | [Meeting Note](notes/20201215-meeting-governance.md#decision-approve-lehnberg-funding-request)
74 | 20201020 | Approve @jaspervdm Nov-Jan 20/21 funding request | [Meeting Note](notes/20201020-meeting-governance.md#decision-approve-jaspervdm-funding-request)
73 | 20201006 | Approve @lehnberg Q4 2020 funding request | [Meeting Note](notes/20201006-meeting-governance.md#decision-approve-lehnberg-funding-request)
72 | 20200922 | Approve @antiochp Q4 2020 funding request | [Meeting Note](notes/20200922-meeting-governance.md#decision-approve-antiochp-funding-request)
71 | 20200908 | Update code of conduct | [Meeting Note](notes/20200908-meeting-governance.md#decision-update-code-of-conduct)
70 | 20200908 | Remove @hashmap from core team | [Meeting Note](notes/20200908-meeting-governance.md#decision-remove-hashmap-from-core-team)
69 | 20200908 | Remove @ignotus as BDFL | [Meeting Note](notes/20200908-meeting-governance.md#decision-remove-ignotus-as-bdfl)
68 | 20200908 | Approve @dtavarez funding request | [Meeting Note](notes/20200908-meeting-governance.md#decision-approve-dtavarez-funding-request)
68 | 20200908 | Approve @dtavarez funding request | [Meeting Note](notes/20200908-meeting-governance.md#decision-approve-i1skn-funding-request)
67 | 20200908 | Approve @i1skn funding request | [Meeting Note](notes/20200908-meeting-governance.md#decision-approve-i1skn-funding-request)
66 | 20200728 | Approve @paouky funding request | [Meeting Note](notes/20200728-meeting-governance.md#decision-approve-paouky-funding-request)
65 | 20200630 | Approve @antiochp funding request (Q3 2020) | [Meeting Note](notes/20200630-meeting-governance.md#decision-approve-antiochp-funding-request)
64 | 20200630 | Approve @lehnberg funding request (Q3 2020) | [Meeting Note](notes/20200630-meeting-governance.md#decision-approve-lehnberg-funding-request)
63 | 20200630 | Approve @yeastplume funding request (Q3 2020) | [Meeting Note](notes/20200630-meeting-governance.md#decision-approve-yeastplume-funding-request)
62 | 20200512 | Deprecate http(s) by 5.0.0, announce by 4.0.0 | [Meeting Note](notes/20200512-meeting-development.md#5-decision-deprecate-https)
61 | 20200407 | Approve @antiochp funding request (Q2 2020) | [Meeting Note](notes/20200407-meeting-governance.md#decision-approve-antiochp-funding-request)
60 | 20200407 | Approve recurring quarterly payments to @quentinlesceller for forum.grin.mw | [Meeting Note](notes/20200407-meeting-governance.md#decision-forumgrinmw-payments-approved-for-quentinlesceller)
59 | 20200324 | Approve @lehnberg funding request (Q2 2020) | [Meeting Note](notes/20200324-meeting-governance.md#decision-approve-lehnberg-funding-request)
58 | 20200310 | Approve @yeastplume funding request (Q2 2020) | [Meeting Note](notes/20200310-meeting-governance.md#decision-approve-yeastplume-funding-request)
57 | 20200225 | Approve @jaspervdm funding request (Mar-May 2020) | [Meeting Note](notes/20200225-meeting-governance.md#decision-approve-jaspervdm-funding-request)
56 | 20200128 | Rename sub-teams to teams | [Meeting Note](notes/20200128-meeting-governance.md#decision-rename-sub-teams-to-teams)
55 | 20200128 | Do not approve book funding request | [Meeting Note](notes/20200128-meeting-governance.md#decision-do-not-approve-book-funding-request)
54 | 20200121 | No min rust version for the time being | [Meeting Note](notes/20200121-meeting-development.md#decision-no-min-rust-version)
53 | 20200121 | `v3.0.0 < x < v4.0.0` release process  | [Meeting Note](notes/20200121-meeting-development.md#decision-release-process-until-400-hf3)
52 | 20200114 | Approve @lehnberg Q12020 request for funding  | [Meeting Note](notes/20200114-meeting-governance.md#decision-approve-lehnberg-q12020-funding-request)
51 | 20191217 | Move dev & governance meetings to keybase  | [Meeting Note](notes/20191217-meeting-governance.md#decision-switch-location-for-dev--governance-meetings)
50 | 20191217 | Distribution of backup shares for grin.mw domain login  | [Meeting Note](notes/20191217-meeting-governance.md#decision-shares-to-the-grinmw-domain-login)
49 | 20191217 | Approve @yeastplume Q12020 request for funding  | [Meeting Note](notes/20191217-meeting-governance.md#decision-approve-yeastplume-q12020-funding-request)
48 | 20191203 | Forum policy for closed source projects & how to handle potential scams | [Meeting Note](notes/20191203-meeting-governance.md#decision-closed-source-projects--potential-scams-on-forum)
47 | 20191119 | Migrate forum to `forum.grin.mw`  | [Meeting Note](notes/20191119-meeting-governance.md#decision-migrate-forum-url)
46 | 20191008 | Approve @lehnberg request for funding  | [Meeting Note](notes/20191008-meeting-governance.md#7-decision-approve-lehnberg-request-for-funding)
45 | 20191008 | Migration to grin.mw domain | [Meeting Note](notes/20191008-meeting-governance.md#decision-new-grin-website-url)
44 | 20190924 | Security audit steps and timelines responsibility to @j01tz  | [Meeting Note](notes/20190924-meeting-governance.md#decision-security-report-publication)
43 | 20190917 | Remove Ignotus from `SECURITY.MD`  | [Meeting Note](notes/20190917-meeting-development.md#decision-removing-ignotus-from-security-disclosure-contacts)
42 | 20190827 | Funding for @yeastplume | [Meeting Note](notes/20190827-meeting-governance.md#31-decision-yeastplume-request-for-funding)
41 | 20190730 | Eth & Grin donation addresses  | [Meeting Note](notes/20190730-meeting-governance.md#decision-grineth-donation-setup)
40 | 20190723 | Branching model  | [Meeting Note](notes/20190723-meeting-development.md#decision-branching-model)
39 | 20190723 | Version planning, breaking changes in releases  | [Meeting Note](notes/20190723-meeting-development.md#decision-breaking-changes-in-releases)
38 | 20190716 | Adopt [RFC-0002](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-rfcs/blob/master/text/0002-grin-governance.md): Grin governance  | [Meeting Note](notes/20190716-meeting-governance.md#decision-establish-sub-teams)
37 | 20190716 | Adopt [RFC-0001](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-rfcs/blob/master/text/0001-rfc-process.md): Introduce RFC Process  | [Meeting Note](notes/20190716-meeting-governance.md#decision-introduce-rfc-process)
36 | 20190702 | Add @j01tz to `SECURITY.MD`  | [Meeting Note](notes/20190702-meeting-governance.md#decision-add-j01tz-to-securitymd)
35 | 20190625 | POW: Define commitment period of no change to 18 months in the future. Put phaseouts on hold. | [Meeting Note](notes/20190625-meeting-development.md#decision-putting-phaseouts-on-hold)
34 | 20190618 | Set up RFC repo and process  | [Meeting Note](notes/20190618-meeting-governance.md#decision-set-up-rfc-repo-and-process)
33 | 20190618 | Add @hashmap to `SECURITY.MD`  | [Meeting Note](notes/20190618-meeting-governance.md#decision-add-hashmap-to-securitymd)
32 | 20190521 | Pay final Coinspect installment  | [Meeting Note](notes/20190521-meeting-governance.md#decision-coinspect-payment)
31 | 20190409 | Funding for @lehnberg | [Meeting Note](notes/20190409-meeting-governance.md#decision-lehnberg-funding)
30 | 20190326 | Next steps in POW phase out discussion | [Meeting Note](notes/20190326-meeting-governance.md#decision-next-steps-regarding-phase-out-discussion)
29 | 20190326 | Treasury management of ETH | [Meeting Note](notes/20190326-meeting-governance.md#decision-treasury-management-of-eth)
28 | 20190326 | Funding for Antioch Peverell re-evaluated | [Meeting Note](notes/20190326-meeting-governance.md#decision-antiochp-funding-re-evaluation)
27 | 20190312 | Funding for Ignotus Peverell  | [Meeting Note](notes/20190312-meeting-governance.md#decision-funding-for-ignotus-peverell) 
26 | 20190312 | Quarterly income and spend reporting  | [Meeting Note](notes/20190312-meeting-governance.md#54-decision-reporting) 
25 | 20190312 | How to update spending logs  | [Meeting Note](notes/20190312-meeting-governance.md#53-decision-updating-income-spending-logs) 
24 | 20190312 | Treasury management and how to handle crypto balances  | [Meeting Note](notes/20190312-meeting-governance.md#decision-treasury-management) 
23 | 20190312 | Review security vulnerability process | [Meeting Note](notes/20190312-meeting-governance.md#decision-review-our-security-vulnerability-process)
22 | 20190312 | Move yeastplume funding out of income log | [Meeting Note](notes/20190312-meeting-governance.md#decision-move-out-yeastplume-funding-from-income_log)
21 | 20190226 | Funding for antiochp | [Meeting Note](notes/20190226-meeting-governance.md#decision-fundingfor-antioch-peverell)
20 | 20190219 | Release week for v1.0.2 | [Meeting Note](notes/20190219-meeting-development.md#decision-v102) |
19 | 20190212 | Firm to hire for security audit | [Meeting Note](notes/20190212-meeting-governance.md#decision-security-audit-firm) |
18 | 20190205 | Handling unsafe http transactions | [Meeting Note](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/notes/20190205-meeting-development.md#decision-approach-for-http-transactions-in-grin-wallet) |
17 | 20190129 | StackExchange approach | [Meeting Note](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/notes/20190129-meeting-governance.md#decision-stackexchange-approach) |
16 | 20190129 | Run https listener for dev fund donations | [Meeting Note](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/notes/20190129-meeting-governance.md#52-decision-donation-addresses)
15 | 20190129 | Add Fund transparency report | [Meeting Note](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/notes/20190129-meeting-governance.md#decision-fund-transparency-report)
14 | 20190122| Change pull request review process | [Meeting Note](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/notes/20190122-meeting-development.md#81-decision-pull-request-reviews) |
13 | 20190122| Add issue reporting templates | [Meeting Note](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/notes/20190122-meeting-development.md#decision-add-issue-reporting-templates) |
12 | 20190122| Define work approach for releases | [Meeting Note](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/notes/20190122-meeting-development.md#decision-define-approach-for-releases)
11 | 20190117| Adopt Currency Symbol | [Meeting Note](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/notes/20190117-meeting-governance.md#102-currency-symbol) |
10 | 20190117| Adopt Currency Code | [Meeting Note](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/notes/20190117-meeting-governance.md#101-currency-code) |
9 | 20190117| Where/how to promote communities and events | [Meeting Note](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/notes/20190117-meeting-governance.md#decision-managing-chat-channels) |
8 | 20190117| Merge new design for grin-tech.org | [Meeting note](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/notes/20190117-meeting-governance.md#decision-update-to-website-design) |
7 | 20190117| Fee for exchange integration support |[Meeting note](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/notes/20190117-meeting-governance.md#decision-exchange-integration-support-rate) |
6 | 20190117| Review three price quotes for security audits, time for deciding on winning bid | [Meeting note](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/notes/20190117-meeting-governance.md#decision-how-to-settle-on-auditor) |
5 | 20190108 | Initial scope for v1.1.0 | [Meeting note](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/notes/20190108-meeting-development.md#5-post-mainnet-planning)
4 | 20190108 | Test main net launch | [Meeting note](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/notes/20190108-meeting-development.md#45-mainnet-launch-dry-run)
3 |20190102 | Bikeshedding polls | [Meeting note](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/notes/20190103-meeting-governance.md#92-bikeshedding)
2 | 20190103 | Genesis block message | [Meeting note](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/notes/20190103-meeting-governance.md#921-genesis-message)
1 | 20190103 | Deadline for Risk brainstorm process | [Meeting note](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/notes/20190103-meeting-governance.md#decision-2)
