# Meeting Notes: Governance, October 09

Governance meeting held Oct 09 @ 3PM [UTC](http://www.timebie.com/std/utc.php) in grin/Lobby on Gitter, full chat transcript [here](https://gitter.im/grin_community/Lobby?at=5bbcc2b6bbdc0b25050fccbc). Meeting lasted ~ 1h.

Notes are truncated, and conversations sorted based on topic and not always chronological. Quotes are edited for brevity and clarity, and not always exact. 

**Community attendance:**
* 0xb100d
* antioch
* Catheryne_N_twitter
* crazymonkyyy
* ignopeverell
* jaspervdm
* kargakis
* kngako
* lehnberg
* mcdallas
* tromp
* yeastplume

_(apologies if I missed someone - open a PR or contact @lehnberg to add)_


## Agenda points & Actions

### 1. Agenda review
[Proposed agenda](https://forum.grin.mw/t/agenda-governance-oct-9-2018) accepted.

### 2. Previous follow ups 

#### 2.1 Mu-sig wallet for donations
* Wallet has now been setup and funding requests doc updated
* _@mcdallas:_ have you guys considered funding through a patreon type platform?
   * Discussions ensued around the potential pros and cons, ultimately it was agreed that though it would be beneficial from the point of being able to raise funds, the effort and complexities raised with accepting non-crypto donations while not being a formal organization made it not worth the while. 

#### 2.2 Security Audits
* Progress is now [tracked on GitHub](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin/issues/1609).
* Looks like at least $80k will be needed for security audits, so important to step up the efforts to raise funds.
* _Catheryne_N_twitter:_ Things that need to be done include
   * Funds: creating a targeted list of people & investors to reach out to, crafting the message, and assuring that funds will be used appropriately.
   * Audit: getting a 3rd audit company, appealing to open-source nature of project, and prioritizing items to be audited (to reduce scope)
##### Action points:
* [X] @ignopeverell to produce a writeup to send to @Catheryne_N_twitter for review and then [publish on grin-tech.org](https://grin-tech.org/sec_audit.html). 
* [X] @Catheryne_N_twitter to reach out to a third firm to obtain a third quote.

#### 2.3 Vision / Mission / Values
* No update, doc has still not been published

#### 2.4 Risk management
* No update.

### 3. Repo for Grin Project Management 
* Proposal:
   * PM repo created
   * Meetings are announced as issues (closed once notes have been written, and the agendas are covered within the issue).
   * Meeting Notes are written as markdown files and posted to the repo
   * Notes and meetings are announced/cross-posted to the forum
* No objections to the proposal from the meeting.
##### Action points:
* [X] @ignopeverell to create the repo, with @lehnberg taking the lead on maintaining it.

### 4. PoW update
* No relevant update
* _@crazymonkyyy:_ I'd like open source asic bounties to be decided on.
   * _@jaspervdm:_ the cost to develop an asic (and potential profit) is higher than a bounty can supply.
