# Meeting Notes: Governance, Aug 27 2019

Governance meeting held Aug 13 2019 @ 3PM [UTC](http://www.timebie.com/std/utc.php) in [grin/Lobby on Gitter](https://gitter.im/grin_community/Lobby), full chat transcript [here](https://gitter.im/grin_community/Lobby?at=5d6545d49b381b084f037a45). Meeting lasted ~ 55 min.

Notes are truncated, and conversations sorted based on topic and not always chronological. Quotes are edited for brevity and clarity, and not always exact. 

**Community attendance:**
* antiochp
* DavidBurkett
* grinboy_gitlab
* hashmap
* jaspervdm
* j01tz
* lehnberg
* mcdallas
* newtownf1
* quentinlesceller
* tromp
* yeastplume

_(apologies if I missed someone - open a PR or contact @lehnberg to add)_

## Agenda points & Actions

### 1. Agenda review
[Proposed agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/176) accepted.

### 2. Action point follow ups from previous meetings

#### 2.1 [Site redesign](https://forum.grin.mw/t/grin-website-redesign/5533)

* _lehnberg:_ I saw that @nijynot was working on the redesign, but was  busy this week and wouldn’t have it ready, so I suspect we might need to wait a bit more for that one. Looking promising for sure, though.
   * _jaspervdm:_ Yes from what ive seen so far it looked really nice


#### 2.2 Funding transparency report II
[Actioned](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/financials/reports/funding_transparency_2019Q2.md).

#### 2.3 ETH donation address
[Actioned](https://github.com/mimblewimble/site/pull/143).

### 3. Funding

#### 3.1 Decision: Yeastplume Request for funding

* _lehnberg:_ There’s a https://forum.grin.mw/t/request-for-funding-yeastplume/5944:
    > So, in keeping with other funding requsts, I’d like to ask for the equivalent of EUR30k to cover my full time work on Grin until the end of this year (covering the period from the last part of Sept through the end of December.

    So to be precise, it means it’s funding until Dec 31, 2019?
   * _yeastplume:_ Yes.

_Meeting was in favour_


#### 3.2 General money management questions

* _lehnberg:_ Our policy so far has been pro-BTC and pro-GRIN holdings only. It puts us at fiat x-rate fluctuation risk, but also gives us ease of custody.
   * _mcdallas:_ Stablecoins adds counterparty risk.
   * _j01tz:_ I'm hard pressed to find something less risky than BTC/GRIN for this model.
   * _tromp:_ I'd like to stick with BTC + GRIN.
      * _quentinlesceller:_ +1
      * _yeastplume:_ I'd agree, I think it's unfortunate there isn't a better solution for hedging risk, but might just be something we need to come to accept as an ongoing project risk.
* _grinboy gitlab:_ I think spending is important too, and prob leads to increased donations.
   * _lehnberg:_  Indeed! And we welcome funding requests and spending proposals. We reserve the right to be opionated about them nevertheless. Any suggestions on how best to spend or get more devs are welcomed.
   * _jaspervdm:_ A grant could be really useful. 
   * _antiochp:_ We need to see solid contribution from people before we start paying them though - the dev fund is for allowing people to (continue to) work on grin.
   * _davidburkett:_ Seeking money for services is not inherently bad. It's a lot to ask someone to "just contribute" for an unknown amount of time, with no guarantee of later funding. Sure, they shouldn't be nobody's, but we shouldn't act like every dev has to be entirely altruistic.
      * _jaspervdm:_ Sure, if a dev has a good track record in a closely related project and wants to request funding, im sure people would be more open to it. 
  
### 4. RFC & sub-teams update

* _lehnberg:_ The [latest issue of grinnews](https://grinnews.substack.com/p/61-back-to-work-) has an RFC section, which lists the up to date status. Can [mimblewimble/grin-rfcs#21](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-rfcs/pull/21) be moved into FCP?
   * _antiochp:_ Yes.  

* _tromp:_ I'd like to invite ppl to check on [mimblewimble/grin-rfcs#19](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-rfcs/pull/19) in which I touch on some scalability issues with my last comment.

* _lehnberg:_  And this is the sub teams tracking issue [mimblewimble/grin-pm#167](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/167).

### 5. Security

* _j01tz:_ Still waiting to hear back from auditors after they review our remediation report, which they have acknowledged receipt of. If I don't hear back by the end of this week will follow up with them again.

### 6. Other questions

None.

**Meeting adjourned.**
