# Meeting Notes: Governance, Sep 10 2019

Governance meeting held Sep 10 2019 @ 3PM [UTC](http://www.timebie.com/std/utc.php) in [grin/Lobby on Gitter](https://gitter.im/grin_community/Lobby), full chat transcript [here](https://gitter.im/grin_community/Lobby?at=5d77ba93c593902720481821). Meeting lasted ~ 45 min.

Notes are truncated, and conversations sorted based on topic and not always chronological. Quotes are edited for brevity and clarity, and not always exact. 

**Community attendance:**
* antiochp
* DavidBurkett
* hashmap
* jaspervdm
* j01tz
* lehnberg
* quentinlesceller
* yeastplume

_(apologies if I missed someone - open a PR or contact @lehnberg to add)_

## Agenda points & Actions

### 1. Agenda review
[Proposed agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/185) accepted.

### 2. Action point follow ups from previous meetings

#### 2.1 [Site redesign](https://forum.grin.mw/t/grin-website-redesign/5533)

* _lehnberg:_ No update from @nijynot

#### 2.2 Yeastplume payment

* _lehnberg:_ Actioned, spending logs have been updated.

### 3. Security

#### 3.1 Audit

* _j01tz:_ Received remediation verification report back from auditors at end of last week. Everything looks good, with one issue possibly not quite fully resolved. Did not get a chance to review this weekend due to some IRL issues so will make some time this week so we can finally wrap this up. Once this is addressed we can complete the public reports for coordinated release. I think coinspect wants to sync on a release date. I'll reach out to make sure we are on the same page wrt publishing.

#### 3.2 [Security Process RFC](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-rfcs/blob/master/text/0003-security-process.md)

* _j01tz:_ We need to decide what to do with the canary- if we want to move to a different section, keep there, remove etc.
   * _lehnberg:_ I’ll follow up this week.

### 4. Grincon1

* _lehnberg:_ We want to get planning. @hashmap and @i1skn were awesome organizers last. And did a fantastic job on short notice. Let’s see what we can put together with a bit more leeway and maybe help from others as well.
* _hashmap:_ Berlin sounds like a good git fo Grin - poor but sexy. 
   * _quentinlesceller:_ I like Berlin too. I would love to do a Grincon in Montreal though, there is a quite large crypto community there. I understand that it's a bit more difficult since most of you are in EU.
   * _lehnberg:_ I also like Berlin for it personally. But maybe that’s something for an events sub-team to decide? I guess it also maybe depends on what format we want. Is it a one day event? Who’s speaking? What’s the capacity, etc. If we can’t pay for speakers accommodation and travel, we might want to have the event somewhere close to “them” whoever they are.
   * _quentinlesceller:_ Yeah, this needs to be discussed.
   * _lehnberg:_ Shall we announce a new keybase team where those who are interested can join and start talking?

_Meeting did not object._

### 5. RFC & Sub-teams update

#### 5.1 Moderation team

* _lehnberg:_ We’ve tried to bootstrap a moderation sub team, and have had 5 people join (DavidBurkett, Energyburn, Lavalulu, Beardofmerlin, Macmopsus). To be clear, the purpose of the team has never been to “centralize” moderation for all grin related discussion on platforms and force people to abide with it. Rather, there are some places that require moderation, which at the moment is handled by the core team. Grin Forum, Gitter, Keybase, Github, are a couple of examples. We want to externalize moderation away from the core team as it’s not appropriate for core members to be moderators. It should be a neutral third party, that is unbiased. That’s why this sub-team was proposed. There’s not much work needed to kick off the moderation team: a definition of its purpose, how someone becomes part of it, what the process is, that kind of thing. Sadly there’s not been much progress on this however, and I’d like to see if we can find a way to move forward. Was thinking perhaps it could make sense to instead task one or two people more clearly to do this work, and then have them announce it on the forum and open for people who want to join and be part of helping out, based on that baseline. Does anyone have any thoughts about this?
* _quentinlesceller:_ Makes sense. Are these two persons members of the Grin moderation team?
    * _lehnberg:_ Yeah so @lavalulu (not sure that’s the right gitter handle) has shown some initiative, and is also admin of discord. I’d be happy to task him/her/they with it and have them add more people as they need it.
    * _quentinlesceller:_ I see. I could take the lead to etablish some guidelines and structure but that would be a conflict with the current idea of the moderation team. I would much prefer if someone mentioned above could take the lead. Just a simple forum post would do.
    * _lehnberg:_ Oki, will work on that basis and see where we are next meeting.

* _lehnberg:_ Other than this, no update on other subteams. As for RFCs, I don’t think there’s any non-dev RFC proposed at the moment, and we already discussed the security one.

### 6. Other questions

None.

**Meeting adjourned.**
