# Meeting Notes: Governance, Oct 22 2019

Governance meeting held @ 3PM [UTC](http://www.timebie.com/std/utc.php) in [grin/Lobby on Gitter](https://gitter.im/grin_community/Lobby), full chat transcript [here](https://gitter.im/grin_community/Lobby?at=5daf1a01e886fb5aa2d6a517). Meeting lasted ~ 30 min.

Notes are truncated, and conversations sorted based on topic and not always chronological. Quotes are edited for brevity and clarity, and not always exact. 

**Community attendance:**
* antiochp
* hashmap
* jaspervdm
* j01tz
* lehnberg
* quentinlesceller
* tromp
* yeastplume

_(apologies if I missed someone - open a PR or contact @lehnberg to add)_

## Agenda points & Actions

### 1. Agenda review
[Proposed agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/201) accepted.

### 2. Action point follow ups from previous meetings

#### 2.1 Site redesign

* _lehnberg:_ @nijynot design is live, feels like a good improvement. 
   * _quentinlesceller:_ Very nice improvement indeed. Again good job!
   * _jaspervdm:_ Definitely.

* _lehnberg:_ Displaying grin budget and creating a simple onboarding flow with binaries action points have now been unblocked. There's still more work to be done, those who feel up for some web design, there are areas where your services would be valued. See here for example:
   * [mimblewimble/site#134](https://github.com/mimblewimble/site/issues/134)
   * [mimblewimble/site#137](https://github.com/mimblewimble/site/issues/137)
   * [mimblewimble/site#148](https://github.com/mimblewimble/site/issues/148)
   * [mimblewimble/site#150](https://github.com/mimblewimble/site/issues/150)
   * [mimblewimble/site#151](https://github.com/mimblewimble/site/issues/151)

#### 2.2 Lehnberg funding

Actioned.

#### 2.3 Grincon call for presenters

Actioned. 

* _lehnberg:_ Do we want to post on the mailing list on that? 
   * _quentinlesceller:_ Yeah that'd be great. 
   * _lehnberg:_ Wanna take that one? 
   * _quentinlesceller:_ Sure. 

#### 2.4 List of crypto problems

* _quentinlesceller:_ Here is a list of 7 research problems https://github.com/mimblewimble/docs/wiki/Grin-Open-Research-Problems. There are some more simple problems such as implementations problems and also wider problem such as the accumulator one or the one about reducing linkability of outputs on chain. To be clear, this is just to be considered as a starting point, feel free to edit and add problems.
   * _yeastplume:_ Very nice, very good to have all of these in the one place.
   * _lehnberg:_ Indeed. So let’s all take until next gov meeting to review / improve / comment etc and see if we get to sth stable that we can put on the website alongside of a call for people interested working on any of these to get in touch?
   * _quentinlesceller:_ Yes, you can make changes by just editing the wiki.
   * _lehnberg:_ Cool - let's give Quentin the right to revert changes and keep document in order and avoid wiki chaos.

### 3. Website

Covered as part of section 2.1 above.

### 4. Security

#### 4.1 Audit

* _j01tz:_  Glad [the report is finally released](https://forum.grin.mw/t/grin-security-audit-2-results/6264), thanks to everyone for helping :)

### 5. grincon1

* _lehnberg:_ We have:
   * Venue secured
   * [Call for speakers](https://forum.grin.mw/t/grincon1-call-for-presenters/6250/) announced, submissions closes Oct 30, we’ve received 1 application so far. Eight days left to nail down a speaker schedule - if anyone here wants to give a talk, apply now.
   * Very ugly website up https://grincon.org
   * An anonymous donor that might be willing to cover part of the bar tab
   * Registration to the event is now [open](https://www.meetup.com/MimbleWimble-Grin-Berlin/events/265833204/).

   We don’t have much more than that at this stage I think. 

### 6. RFC & Sub-teams update

* _lehnberg:_ 
   * RFCs: No update.
   * Sub-teams: Still no moderation team announcement but expecting that to move forward soon. Some documentation has been produced. Aspiring moderators willing to take an active part in reviewing, please reach out.

### 8. Other questions

#### 8.1 Grin 2020 Roadmap

* _lehnberg:_ I’ve not fully thought it through but would like to propose some kind of canvassing effort to solicit ideas and directions that can be put into a Grin 2020 Roadmap doc. Where some X focus areas are prioritized for the year, with some motivation. Will try to formalize some thoughts asap. If anyone wants to be involved, give me a shout.
   *  _antiochp:_ To be clear - is the idea to canvas in terms of proposing ideas with an intent to also implement them or just ideas for Grin to implement? i.e. is this a wishlist? Or things people have an interest in contributing to?
   *  _lehnberg:_ I see it as a bit of both, it’s “what Grin should focus on achieving in the next year”. I’m thinking there’s some communal effort where anyone is free to propose ideas, that then gets condensed into a core approved (tm) doc. Obviously if a proposal also includes how it is delivered, it strengthens the rationale for us focusing on it.

**Meeting adjourned.**
