# Meeting Notes: Governance, Dec 17 2019

Governance meeting held @ 3PM [UTC](http://www.timebie.com/std/utc.php) in [grin/Lobby on Gitter](https://gitter.im/grin_community/Lobby), full chat transcript [here](https://gitter.im/grin_community/Lobby?at=5df8edb655d93923002854cd). Meeting lasted ~ 60 min.

Notes are truncated, and conversations sorted based on topic and not always chronological. Quotes are edited for brevity and clarity, and not always exact. 

**Community attendance:**
* antiochp
* lehnberg
* quentinlesceller
* tromp
* yeastplume

_(apologies if I missed someone - open a PR or contact @lehnberg to add)_

## Agenda points & Actions

### 1. Agenda review
[Proposed agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/227) accepted.

### 2. Action point follow ups from previous meetings

* Write Q3 Financial Transparency report
   * _lehnberg:_ Done: https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/blob/master/financials/reports/funding_transparency_2019Q3.md

* Publish Grin 2020 roadmap RFC
   * _lehnberg:_ Not actioned. Hoping to get to that proposal soon.

* @tromp re-imbursed by GGF?
   * _lehnberg:_ Done: [mimblewimble/grin-pm#230](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/pull/230)

### 3. Yeastplume funding request

* _lehnberg:_ Request for funding link [here](https://forum.grin.mw/t/request-for-funding-yeastplume-jan-mar-2020). Proposal is to support yeast with 3 x EUR 10,000 for Q12020. Floor is open for people to discuss. Does anyone have any questions or comments to yeastplume? Or about the request?
   * _antiochp:_ none here
   * _quentinlesceller:_ me neither
   * _lehnberg:_  Yeah you lot probably wouldnâ€™t have that many questions but maybe there are some lurkers that want to query/challenge this a bit. Or give a show of support for the (humble) yeast.
   * _tromp:_ I support the yeast

_five minutes of silence followed_


#### Decision: Approve yeastplume Q12020 funding request
* _lehnberg:_ Okay so thatâ€™s at least five minutes of silence. Are we approving? I think there are no objections in 3... 2.... 1....
   * _quentinlesceller:_ well deserved
   * _antiochp:_ ðŸš€
   * _lehnberg:_ ðŸ¥³
   * _yeastplume:_ The yeast humbly thanks everyone for their support in allowing him to continue serving the community!

### 4. Site & Forum

* _lehnberg:_ So financials link not been put up, I will get to it but probably roadmap is higher prio.

* _lehnberg:_ Regarding forum.grin.mw I reached out to @madwax whoâ€™s just now got back to me. Not sure if they are here? In any case they will research VPS hosts for reverse proxy, and I hope weâ€™ll be able to move forward fairly seamlessly, letâ€™s see. Anyone who wants to help out can hit us up.
  
* _lehnberg:_  Regarding the grin.mw domain, @0xb100d came through as always and now wants to know who to hand the Samir shareâ€™s of the domain login to. So wanted to ask today who should have the shares? To be put together in case 0x disappears and we need to renew the domain. I suppose it shouldnâ€™t be a nym.
   * _quentinlesceller:_ Don't mind to be involved.
   * _yeastplume:_ Heh, me as well unless there are no other takers.
   * _lehnberg:_ Could we do a 2 of 3 Samirâ€™s secret share of @quentinlesceller @yeastplume and... @jaspervdm? I donâ€™t mind to be involved but wouldnâ€™t want to propose myself either.
   * _tromp:_ 3 of 5 is safer.
   * _lehnberg:_ Okay letâ€™s add me and @tromp then?
   * _tromp:_ Unless some non-council members want to volunteer.
   * _lehnberg:_ Yeah sure they could take my spot. Is there any non-nym person up for this responsibility?Would anyone reading this like to safekeep a share of the login of the grin.mw domain?

_No takers_

#### Decision: Shares to the grin.mw domain login

* _lehnberg:_ Okay shall we just go with these five people (Quentin yeast tromp jasper lehnberg) and hope jasper is okay with that? And then come back to it if not?

_No disagreement, support from tromp._

### 5. Switch meeting location from gitter to Keybase?

* _lehnberg:_ Shall we move both governance and dev meetings to keybase? Pros: Keybase sucks way less than gitter. Cons: We have way fewer people on keybase and thereâ€™s no IRC relay bot for lurkers etc.
   * _yeastplume:_ I vote for yes.. honestly I use gitter less and less these days
   * _tromp:_ I don't mind. As long as we leave message here saying: "Dev/Gov meeting in progress at keybase channel such and such".
   * _quentinlesceller:_ I think we should figure out a way to give more visibility to keybase. There is significantly less people on those channels.
      * _lehnberg:_ Agreed. Let's add keybase visibility as an action point to track?
   * _yeastplume:_ That is true... but gitter is particularly bad and featureless in comparison. And I would very much like to reduce the number of chat clients that need to be monitored.
   * _quentinlesceller:_ Yep definitely agree with moving everything to keybase.

#### Decision: Switch location for dev & governance meetings 
* _lehnberg:_ Okay, and @DavidBurkett and @JosephGoulden weâ€™re in favor as well. So no objections - letâ€™s try that next meeting then and see how things go? Canâ€™t be more quiet than here in any case. Any late readers of this chat feel free to object after meeting etc.

### 6. RFC & Sub-teams update

#### 6.1 Moderation team
* _lehnberg:_ Moderation team is moving again
@energyburn is a trooper and has picked up the task to help. So maybe after the holidays weâ€™ll have sth. If there are community mods/admins that would like their particular community to be part of this, hit either of us up!

#### 6.2 RFC status review

* _lehnberg:_ I notice both Enable faster sync and TOR are still not merged. Anyone got an update?
   * _antiochp:_ I pinged @DavidBurkett last week about the "enable faster sync" RFC and he's aware of it (he's the shepherd for it).
   * _yeastplume:_ Yes, will merge TOR rfc.

### 7. Dev & Governance meetings during holiday period

* _lehnberg:_ I note that the next dev meeting is set for the 24th of December. And next gov meeting for 31st... As much as we all know how committed we are to Grin, perhaps we should move those meetings?
   * _yeastplume:_ I would propose moving the next official dev meeting until the week after the holidays and going from there and we'll sync up as needed to mind the HF, release and issues separately from meetings.
   * _lehnberg:_ Okay so... dev meeting on 7th of Jan? Governance on 14th?
   * _yeastplume:_ yeah, think I'm okay sticking to 7th and 14th unless there an urgent need otherwise
   * _quentinlesceller:_ I'm good with these dates too
   * _tromp:_ We can always schedule an extra emergency meeting if need be

### 8. Other questions

None.

**Meeting adjourned.**
