# Meeting Notes: Governance, Jun 30 2020

Development meeting held @ 3PM [UTC](http://www.timebie.com/std/utc.php) in [grincoin#general channel on Keybase](https://keybase.io/team/grincoin). Meeting lasted ~ 50 min.

Notes are truncated, and conversations sorted based on topic and not always chronological. Quotes are edited for brevity and clarity, and not always exact.

**Community attendance:**
- antiochp
- energyburn
- joltz
- justaresearcher
- kurt3
- lehnberg
- phyro
- quentinlesceller
- tromp
- yeastplume

_(apologies if I missed someone - submit a PR or contact @lehnberg to add)_

## Agenda points & Actions

### 1. Agenda review
The [proposed agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/306) was reviewed and accepted.

- _lehnberg:_ Jasper reached out to me today. All good, he sends his regards. I hope to see him back some time soon. No specific timeline, but things are looking bright. ğŸŒ
   - ğŸ‘: _yeastplume, antiochp, quentinlesceller, phyro, tromp_
   - _joltz:_ Good to hear, looking forward to seeing him back when he is ready!

### 2. Action point follow ups from previous meeting
_None._

### 3. Funding request: [Yeastplume Q3 2020](https://forum.grin.mw/t/request-for-funding-yeastplume-july-sept-2020/7416)

- _lehnberg:_ Floor is open for relevant questions.
   - _yeastplume:_ ğŸ™‡
- _antiochp:_ I may be biased but ğŸ‘ from here.
- _justaresearcher:_ ğŸ‘.
- _lehnberg:_ Not sure where we'd be without beastplume. Just the work on wallet ahead of 4.0.0 alone has been. ğŸ§¨
- _phyro:_ It's a yes from me ğŸ‘
- _joltz:_ Yes, has been a true pleasure working with beastplume on slatepack. I don't think we could find better hands, even with an unlimited budget.
   - ğŸ‘: _quentinlesceller_
- _quentinlesceller:_ Definitely ğŸ‘
- _yeastplume:_ Give me an unlimited budget and I'll try and find some.
   - ğŸ˜: _joltz, quentinlesceller_
- _lehnberg:_ Is there anyone who has any objection? Fwiw, it's totally cool to come in as a lurker and say "hell no, I think this is wrong". There may be follow up questions about motivations, and suggestions of what we should be doing instead. But generally, it's appropriate to voice objections if there are any.

    _[...]_

#### Decision: Approve @yeastplume funding request
- _lehnberg:_  Allright, _carried_ ğŸ’¥ğŸ”¨
- _antiochp:_ ğŸš€
- _yeastplume:_ Thanks everyone! You remain my favorite community on the internet.
  
### 4. Funding request: [Lehnberg Q3 2020](https://forum.grin.mw/t/request-for-funding-lehnberg-q3-jul-sep-2020/7450)

- _lehnberg:_ Next up is yours truly, @yeastplume please take the club.

- _lehnberg:_ My own q1 evaluation is due in a week, but I'll say for now that I'm getting a better hang of this, finding a decent grin/life balance as a part-time gig. And also letting you all know that I'm about maxed out at the moment in terms of available time I have to spend on grin, as I've got a testy little mini-thormundÂ that's commanding more and more of my time, and I'm getting less and less sleep. So it will be more of the same as the past 3 monts, if you approve.

- _yeastplume:_ Well then, with club in hand, floor is similarly open for relevant questions and comments. Tormund is my favorite pm of my favorite community on the internet who also loves to put himself in the firing line.
   - _lehnberg:_ Me in a nutshell: Https://xkcd.com/386/

- _phyro:_ Another yes from me ğŸ‘
- _quentinlesceller:_ Same for me ğŸ‘ Daniel has been doing some crucial work for grin and I definitely appreciate his contribution.
- _joltz:_ @lehnberg's job is tireless and often thankless but essential for making the difference between an experimental hobby and a real project for real people. I feel lucky to be able to work with him in this capacity on this project ğŸ™
   - ğŸ‘: _antiochp, yeastplume, quentinlesceller, phyro_
- _yeastplume:_ Last chance to violently scream any objections.
- _justaresearcher:_ ğŸ‘

   _[...]_

#### Decision: Approve @lehnberg funding request
- _yeastplume:_ ğŸ”¨ Carried! Take your hammer back and get to work.
- _antiochp:_ ğŸš€
- _lehnberg:_ Thank you all! Looking forward to the next three months!


### 5. Funding request: [Antiochp Q3 2020](https://forum.grin.mw/t/request-for-funding-antioch-jul-sep-2020/7458)

- _lehnberg:_ And last but certainly not least, *antioch*. Some really interesting discussion in thread there.
- _antiochp:_ The only thing I'd add is that even though I'm proposing possibly focusing on wallet stuff the recent discussions around "coinbase outputs as tx outputs" and "duplicate outputs" suggest there may still be a focus on node.
- _lehnberg:_ I was originally worried about antioch dropping node and looking at wallet related stuff, but now feel like that could be really useful. Was never concerns about antioch looking at wallet per se, but more a worry about who's looking at node during that time.
- _yeastplume:_ I  might be biased but it's a large ğŸ‘ from me. Actually, I don't think anyone's done more for grin with such minimal fuss overall. Also looking very forward to having more eyes on the wallet if that indeed materializes.
- _phyro:_ Another ğŸ‘
- _lehnberg:_ Yep ditto ğŸ‘
- _joltz:_ @antioch is a critical part of the team and I don't think we would be here without them, truly grateful to have as a team member ğŸ™
- _antiochp:_ Basically I'm available for whatever we decide is a priority of next few months.
- _lehnberg:_ I think you have that pretty much figured out already tbh. And really trust your judgment!
- _quentinlesceller:_ Massive ğŸ‘ on my side for @antiochp.
- _joltz:_ Yes, echo a trust in your judgment for weighing feedback and determining the best next objectives.
- _kurt3:_ Antioch items will be super important. Hopefully we can determine the priorities fast for him \ her:) fitting the most the skills:)
- _lehnberg:_ Any objections?

   _[...]_

#### Decision: Approve @antiochp funding request
- _lehnberg:_ ğŸˆğŸ’¥ğŸ“Œ_carried_ ğŸ¥³
- _antiochp:_ Thanks all!
   - ğŸš€: _joltz, phyro, lehnberg, yeastplume, kurt3_
- _antiochp:_ Looking forward to next few months.

- _lehnberg:_ Okay, so now that this giant circle-jerk is completed. There's that obama meme. Of obama hanging a medal on obama.
   - ğŸ˜‚: _kurt3, quentinlesceller_
- _joltz:_ Enjoy it while we can, rare to have teams this functional ğŸ˜‚
- _antiochp:_ Thanks obama.
- _yeastplume:_ This is like an obama medal chain.

### 6. RFC & sub-teams update
- _lehnberg:_ [This tweak](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-rfcs/pull/56) I'll merge right now.
   - ğŸ‘: _yeastplume_

#### 6.1 [Slatepack](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-rfcs/pull/55)
- _lehnberg:_ FCP ends today.
- _joltz:_ I was hoping to have one more outside reviewer before fcp ends but they didn't get a chance yet.
- _lehnberg:_ I almost managed to bikeshed-derail the shit out of it. So close... But no cigar. Looks like `slatepack` it is, and I think everyone is mostly okay with that.
   - ğŸ˜…: _joltz_
- _lehnberg:_ @joltz do you feel comfortable with it being merged in its current state? It's not like it _has to_, if you prefer some outside reviewer to look at it.
- _joltz:_ I would have preferred to have the other review but I don't not feel comfortable. :)
   - _lehnberg:_ You're not uncomfortable.
   - _quentinlesceller:_ Lol. Okay so I guess I'll merge today then. :)
   - _joltz:_ ğŸ‘

#### 6.2 [Deprecate http(s) transactions](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-rfcs/pull/54)
_on hold_

#### 6.3 [Parallel IBD](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-rfcs/pull/52)
_on hold_

#### 6.4 [qa team](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-rfcs/pull/45)
- _lehnberg:_ I know I had asked for more time. If it's okay, I'd like to ask for more time.
   - ğŸ‘: _joltz_

#### 6.5 Sub-teams & others
_No update_

### 7. Other questions

#### 7.1 Documentation
- _lehnberg:_ Massive shout out to @quentinlesceller who kicked off a review of our documentation! There's discussion in #dev about it.
   - ğŸ™: _quentinlesceller, joltz, tromp_
- _lehnberg:_ We're doing inventory of all the documentation related documents we have scattered across grin repo, wiki 1 and wiki 2. And anywhere else for that matter. If anyone wants to be a part of making our documentation user friendly, future proof, and accurate, feel free to join and participate in this!
   - _quentinlesceller:_ Yes definitely we need help:)

- _lehnberg:_ I _suspect_ we're going to do some massive spring cleaning on the wiki etc. The (still incomplete) inventory: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ygeqoig_rrwcvbiw-9xhqq89uwq4ukaefxn_qnrhkg4/edit#gid=0.
   - _quentinlesceller:_ Yep same as docs under grin repo.
   - _phyro:_ ++ for that spreadsheet ğŸ‘

- _lehnberg:_ And we're thinking a lot about trying to come up with some housekeeping rules about what _kind_ of document goes where. So that we don't end up with what's the equivalent of desk drawers filled with miscellaneous trinkets and junk.
 So please, if you are obsessive compulsive about organizing stuff, we could really use your unique skills!
   - _yeastplume:_ Sounds like a great initiative, we could really use it.

#### 7.2 Code of Conduct
- _lehnberg:_ I [created an issue](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/309) after some forum banter with kurt over the weekend. My intention is not to rethink the coc or to open up some kind of giant can of worms. More to make sure it's up to date, and that it's as contention-free as possible. The _spirit_ of the CoC would remain the same.
   - _antiochp:_ I was relatively concerned this was going to go off a cliff - thanks for turning this into a set of concrete steps/tasks in that issue.
      - ğŸ‘: _quentinlesceller_
- _lehnberg:_ Anyone who wants to, is free to join in and participate in this effort. I intend to tackle it after 4.0.0. At the first sign of trolling, flaming, or general obnoxiousness, I'm abandoning it without any hesitation or guilt.
   - ğŸ‘: _yeastplume, quentinlesceller, joltz_

- _antiochp:_ Incremental improvements/keep up to date ğŸ‘
rewrite/remove/bikeshedding ğŸ‘
   - ğŸ¯: _lehnberg, yeastplume, phyro_

**Meeting adjourned.**