# Meeting Notes: Development, June 01 2021

Governance meeting held @ 3PM [UTC](http://www.timebie.com/std/utc.php) in [grincoin#dev channel on Keybase](https://keybase.io/team/grincoin). Meeting lasted ~ 45 min.

Notes are truncated, and conversations sorted based on topic and not always chronological. Quotes are edited for brevity and clarity, and not always exact.

**Community attendance:**
- joltz
- geneferneau
- phyro
- quentinlesceller
- mark_hollis
- tromp
- dburkett



_(apologies if I missed someone - submit a PR or contact @lehnberg to add)_



## Agenda points & Actions
### Action follow-up
- _joltz:_ I trust @phyro is still chugging along on the never ending triage For "fixpastfees" I know the RFC got merged, were the code PRs merged as well? Yep, looks like it https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin/pull/3629

### 2. Agenda review
The [proposed agenda](agenda for dev meeting later today - https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/424) was accepted without changes.

### 4. 5.1.0 release
- _joltz:_ For 5.1.0 release we had an issue with launching in certain environments https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin/issues/3641
It looks like there was maybe some progress since last dev meeting, but I'm not sure we have landed on anything actionable? Or maybe we have with the build process
- _geneferneau:_ afaiu, the problem doesn't occur with source build
 - _joltz:_ Right, it is an optimization in how the binary is generated by us?
- _tromp:_ croaring builds use avx2 instructions unless prohibited with ROARING_DISABLE_AVX
 - _geneferneau:_ don't know if its fixed on the build machines
 - _quentinlesceller:_ Yes disabling avx should do
 - _tromp:_ or with -mno-avx flag to gcc - we need someone familiar with build scripts to try these options and test on a machine with no avx support
 - _quentinlesceller:_ it's here: https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin/blob/master/.ci/release.yml#L7 I could potentially try and fix it.
 - _joltz:_ That would be great @quentinlesceller if it is a quick fix for you. If not let me know and I'll try to find someone to work on it üôè
 - _quentinlesceller:_ tbh that's a quick fix for me, I'll do it

### 5. Review atomic swap RFC/PR https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-rfcs/pull/80 && https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin/pull/3643
- _joltz:_ It sounds like there is some active ongoing discussion there shame on me for not having engaged much there yet It is an exciting and important area though and will certainly benefit from more engagement Is there anything in those discussions or processes worth highlighting here?
 - _geneferneau:_ definitely, going to make a forum post suggesting a modification to SAS. hopefully, get some feedback from Ruben Somsen- need to implement multiparty outputs in grin-wallet which requires exposing multiparty bulletproofs (already present in secp256k1-zkp) to Rust and grin-wallet- side benefit: Grin multiparty outputs should be generally available after
 - _joltz:_ yes, and multiparty is long overdue for grin imo, glad to see it is being picked up- definitely one of the most exciting things going on in the grin ecosystem right now, thanks @geneferneau!
 - _geneferneau:_ you're welcome üôè

### 6. Bounty updates
- _joltz:_ Anything to add for the bounty update @mark_hollis? We got a nice update a week ago https://forum.grin.mw/t/grin-ledger-hardware-wallet-progress-thread-by-markhollis/8670/13
 - _mark_hollis:_ This week I had some troubles building grin++, this is solved now.
Now I am at back grin-walle,t focusing on how to serialize the data to send to the device. Thinking about something like Partially Signed Bitcoin Transactions, but for Grin. It's a format for serializing transactions. The Ledger firmware should expect the data to come in a certain format. This should be uniform for both grin-wallet and grin++ and possible other wallets. thanks to @geneferneau for mentioning psbt's.
- _quentinlesceller:_ very nice @mark_hollis
- _joltz:_ thanks @mark_hollis it's great following your progress on this, thanks for your strong efforts üôè
- _geneferneau:_ great work @mark_hollis

### 7. Grin wallet PR to add Tor bridge support. https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-wallet/pull/617
- _joltz:_ This will be an important update for users located in places where Tor is blocked. Thanks to @deeev I made a few comments, would be great for others to weigh in as some decisions need to be made about how to handle this extension Nothing too involved though Mostly just wanted to bring the PR on everyone's radar to give any feedback they may have, and to highlight @deeev's contribution

###Other Questions
- _joltz:_ it looks like there is a suggestion about a CHANGELOG.md. I think it's a great idea if we can find someone willing to consistently put one together without adding more to the plates of existing contributors
 - _geneferneau:_ is there a way to script/automate the changelog?
 - _joltz:_ It's possible. The usefulness would probably depend on the descriptiveness of PR titles, commit messages etc
 - _geneferneau:_ I could spend some cycles looking into it
 - _joltz:_ IMO, I wouldn't worry too much about it and stay focused on your current work. But if you need a break and want to look at something else for a bit..
  - _geneferneau:_ definitely

- _joltz:_ I noticed there was a comment about a funding request made to the meeting issue, but it is more appropriate for the next governance meeting
 - _dburkett:_ Does it even make sense to separate governance and dev meetings anymore? we get roughly the same attendance regardless of which meeting it is.
 - _joltz:_ I plan to add this as a point in the next governance meeting
 - _quentinlesceller:_ I'd vote for a bi weekly dev + gov meeting. and return to "normal" once there is more activity


**Meeting adjourned.**
