# Meeting Notes: Governance, Mar 30 2021

Governance meeting held @ 3PM [UTC](http://www.timebie.com/std/utc.php) in [grincoin#general channel on Keybase](https://keybase.io/team/grincoin). Meeting lasted ~ 60 min.

Notes are truncated, and conversations sorted based on topic and not always chronological. Quotes are edited for brevity and clarity, and not always exact.

**Community attendance:**
- lehnberg
- defistaker
- antiochp
- jabfalter
- cekickafa
- geneferneau
- phyro
- trevyn
- joltz
- anynomous


_(apologies if I missed someone - submit a PR or contact @lehnberg to add)_



## Agenda Points & Actions

### 1. Retrospective



### 2. Agenda review
The [proposed agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/410) was accepted without changes.

### 3. Action point follow ups from previous meetings
- _lehnberg:_ spending log has not been updated, we have another spend coming in shortly (details tba) so can update both in the same go


### 3. @geneferneau Adaptor Signature Atomic Swap BTC <> GRIN

- _lehnberg:_ Time-line estimate:  ~3-4 months for a minimum-viable-product.
Funds: 40.000 EUR equivalent in BTC, based on the 60-day rolling average 6 at the time of payout.

- _antiochp:_ can we clarify the funding request (amount) in the context of the discussed timeline?
   - _geneferneau:_ definitely, when submitted I was estimating on a 10.000 EUR per month rate

- _lehnberg_ would you be open to consider month-by-month payments?
 - _geneferneau:_ absolutely open to month-by-month payments, and to negotiating the rate

- _lehnberg_ So we agree in principle today, which gets gene started? and then end of month he submits an update and gets paid?
 - üëç:_dburkett, _jabfalter, _anynomous, _defistaker, _vegycslol, _tromp
  - _lehnberg:_ yeah if @geneferneau is happy with this setup let's do it
   - _geneferneau:_ absolutely, thank you all so much for the opportunity
   - _lehnberg:_ play- I consider this accepted - congrats!

### 4. @trevyn Request for funding:[https://forum.grin.mw/t/request-for-funding-tr evyn-apr-2021/8641]
- _lehnberg:_ 1month funding April 2021, 10k EUR, the floor is open for questions

- _phyro:_ do you plan any longer periods after april?
 - _trevyn:_ i would like to, yes. i thought it best to spend april getting a better sense of the sections of code that i'd like to work on, so i can make a more specific funding request :)

- _antiochp:_ just want to say thanks again @trevyn for rolling sleeves up and getting involved in various PRs on github
 - _phyro:_ I honestly have a feeling you'd be a great candidate for long-term- which would include diving deep into, mw, node, wallet

- _lehnberg:_ seems like this is another request with a consensus in favour. any objections, now's the time to voice them;

- _dburkett:_ Can we still get detailed updates?
 - _trevyn:_ of course, I was expecting to do that anyway!

- _lehnberg:_ okay - up front payment, 1 month, 10k EUR ‚Üí approved! congrats
 - üëç: _joltz, _quentinlesceller, _dburkett, _geneferneau, _antiochp, _quentinlesceller, _anynomous, _setsuko, _cekickafa, _antiochp, _defistalker, _trvyn, _phyro

### 5. TradeOgre Compensation [https://forum.grin.mw/t/recompensate-tradeogre/8657)
- _lehnberg:_ ‚Üí has anyone been able to verify this happened?
- _antiochp:_  Impossible to verify, but he did tell multiple people
- _joltz:_ it is a risky precedent. what happens if an exchange loses more than our fund? are we expected to pay for every ecosystem loss? what if blame is not as straightforward etc
-_quentinlesceller:_ Seems like there is no proof right now and no demand from TO
-_pyhro:_ it's an unfortunate situation, but I'm not convinced the grin fund should be used for such compensations. Those that use TO could help with donations
-_lehnberg:_ okay - so there seems to be no strong support in favour of this. is that correct?
 - üëç: _joltz, _quentinlesceller, _dburkett, _geneferneau, _antiochp

### 6. Community Funding
- _lehnberg:_ with AlexGSG's recent application I count 9 applicants in total
would be great to see some more
 - _mcmmike:_ let see if we can motivate a few more people , but 9 is not bad for now . As this would be a long-term comitment if someone will join in.

- _lehnberg:_ okay so what will happen is:
1. council reviews applications
2. council agrees on a proposal
3. council selects mu-sig participants based on applicants?
did I get that right?
where is all this happening? are we supposed to discuss this in open? I'd rather not evaluate candidates in public
 - _antiochp:_ seeing as people ended up getting banned from various communication channels last time I suggested discussing in private we should decide up front if this will indeed be private
  - _dburkett:_ No need for public discussion of candidates, but I would expect an explanation of why a particular proposal was chosen?
   - üëç: _mcmike, antiochp_
   - _lehnberg:_ that definitely sounds fair
   - üëç: _dburkett, _anynomous, _mcmmike, _geneferneau

- lehnberg:_ okay! council members, let's try to be reasonably fast for once and get this wrapped up in two weeks.

### 5. RFC Update
- lehnberg:_ since there's no RFC updates, this is then an excellent segue into our first other question, which is... that I'm planning to take a bit of a break, and have asked @joltz to lead the governance meetings moving forward, which he's kindly agreed to.

### 6. Other questions
_None._




**Meeting adjourned.**
