# Meeting Notes: Development, May 04 2021

Governance meeting held @ 3PM [UTC](http://www.timebie.com/std/utc.php) in [grincoin#dev channel on Keybase](https://keybase.io/team/grincoin). Meeting lasted ~ 30 min.

Notes are truncated, and conversations sorted based on topic and not always chronological. Quotes are edited for brevity and clarity, and not always exact.

**Community attendance:**
- antiochp
- geneferneau
- joltz
- tromp
- phyro
- quentinlesceller
- defistaker



_(apologies if I missed someone - submit a PR or contact @lehnberg to add)_



## Agenda points & Actions
### 1. Antiochp Update
- 5.1.0 beta is out for node
 - _joltz:_ I think we are in a position to tag wallet also?
    -



### 2. Agenda review
The [proposed agenda](agenda for dev meeting later today - https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/419) was accepted without changes.

### 3. Action point follow ups from previous meetings
- Triage/ Github cleaning update @phyro
 - github triage is ongoing

- "fixpastfees" RFC & PR
 - _antiochp:_ "fixpastfees" RFC was accepted and merged last week; PR is in review [and approved](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin/pull/3629) - so I think we are in a position to merge that shortly
(and 5.1.0 will be tagged off current 5.1.0-beta tag so as not to include this right now as its a large-ish PR)


### 4. 5.1.0 release
- _antiochp:_ we should be able to release this sometime this week
on my todo list to get release notes together (mainly cleanup of the list etc.) anything else 5.1.0 related?


### 5. Bounty Update
- _quentinlescellar:_ Got some updates from @mark_hollis, still working on it. I think he is getting deeper into it based on the questions I got.




###Other Questions
_none_







**Meeting adjourned.**
